We now have our player pool feeling much nicer to control.
So in this lecture, we'll be creating our pawns here at class to give this something to play around
with, to begin creating our target class.
We'll be deriving this from our pawn base, C++ class.
So back inside of the Poons folder, I'm just gonna give you a very small challenge.
This shouldn't be a problem at all, but it's just to reconfirm that the process of deriving a classroom
C++ might make sense.
So what I want you to do is pulls video in a moment and go ahead and just drive a new class from pwned
base and name it POUM to it.
So just check that you can remember the process of clicks, get that done, and also make sure that
it is in the Palms folder.
So go ahead and pulls the video.
Okay, so to do this.
Just going to right click choose create C++ class and find our porn base from these search results.
Well, name this one a porn tart.
And again, we'll just double check that it's correctly placed in the Poons voter.
If we then click to create the class and like last home that we derived, a C++ class were going to
be expecting a Foud compilation here.
And we just need to go back over to our idee to make those same changes again.
So if we go over and open the porn turret header and the code file.
Course inside of the head.
We just need to remember to remove the opponent's voter from the beginning of the include path.
And you can recomposed this now if you'd like.
We will be doing that at the end of the lecture.
We did it previously just to kind of confirm that that was the issue that we were having.
Now that we know that this is going to fix anyway.
I'm just gonna carry on.
I would jump straight into our implementation.
So the way that our talk class is going to be working will be kind of very base at levels of A.I. is
going to need to know two things.
And it will then need to react accordingly as these times are going to be stationary.
They'll be constantly checking to discover if the player tank is within a certain range.
And then if it is based on a kind of fire rate restriction, the targets will then fire every so many
seconds.
So that's just a very high level overview of what we're gonna be looking to get working by the end of
implementing this class in the project.
So first, very similar to our tank class.
We'll need our private, public and protected sections.
So just declare those nine.
We'll also need our begin play and our tick event function in here.
But we won't need the input component function as this is going to be an AA class and therefore it won't
need to receive any kind of player input.
Next or just returned to the tank class and will copy these functions and paste the declarations into
our header.
This time, of course, we're using the copy.
Not the cut function as we want to keep these in the tank class.
And just make sure to place the tick function in the public section.
And they begin play back in the protected section, just as a quick side note as well.
If you've ever wondered why, when we create a new class, the tech is always located in the public
section and the begin play is in the protected section.
But both are available to be overridden by derived classes.
That's just because when the actor is created, it creates a virtual void begin to play.
And the derived classes to override.
And this is going to be a topic kind of by itself.
That would be diving into deeper and a little bit later in the in the section.
But in short, though, the different sections that we've been declaring, the private protected and
public sections act as different levels of class security for variables and functions.
So private is the most secure when nothing outside of the class can access a property market as private
public is the least secure, underlies any class with a valid reference to the second class.
Then access those properties which were declared inside, including things like calling functions and
changing variables and then protected is somewhat unique and is used for properties that need to be
hidden from outside classes but will need to be available in a derived child classes.
That's why the take function is made public, because this also has the availability to child classes,
philosophy and other classes which aren't necessarily derived from the same class.
Loser need to access the Delta time specifically in the tech functions by doing things like updating
time dilation when altering things like slowmotion and stuff like that.
Whereas the biggest play is only ever code internally from either the classes declared in or the child
classes of that.
So just a quick side note that really back on topic.
I'm just going to copy the implementation from the tank code file as well and paste this into our turret
to code file.
And just remember that we need to replace any reference to a porn tank with porn turret.
Also ensuring to delete the cool to the rotate and move in the tech.
And then we're gonna be good to go back in the header file.
We're also going to create a void function named check fire condition.
This one won't be used outside of this class and we don't have any child toric classes.
So as I've just kind of given the overview of the different sections, we know that based on those criteria,
we can place this in our private section.
And the way that we're going to be using this to avoid the need to calculate on the update or the tick
event constantly to see whether the fire right condition has been met.
We're going to take our first look at using time as time is a really useful for gameplay programming
as they allow us to perform events based on it elapsed time.
In this example, it will be a kind of fire rate and that's gonna be every X amount of seconds based
on the fire rate that we give the function time to implement a timer.
And plus plus we first need to use something called an F timer handle, which I'll name fire.
Right.
Timer handle.
And this just allows us to bind and unbind our timer, which will be either looping or cooled at certain
intervals.
And it's the timer handle that allows us to create these bindings and control when to start them or
stop them again will only ever be using these in our C++ code so we can drop these into the private
section as well and not worry about any of the property specifies next to implement our check via condition
function or just use the control shift and P shortcut and select implement to get our version of this.
Then we're gonna want to ensure that our timer is created and bound to our check fire condition as soon
as the game begins, because we want this class to be reacting pretty much immediately as soon as we
start play.
So of course, this means that we can make use of the game play function that we've brought over previously.
Before doing that, we're going to go to the top and out of our includes.
The timer functionality that we want is find in the kismet forward slash gameplay static dot hate library.
So we'll include this first.
In case the editor wanted to provide any kind of snippet hints, when we start using these, then to
implement the timer, we want to use the get word function.
Then the get time a manager, which is a kind of global time, a manager for the game.
So you can add multiple timers and this will kind of handle that in the background.
And you may also see this done using another Short-Handed version, which is get world time a manager,
which will return the exact same thing, which is the current time a manager created for that world
or that you object.
Both of these are exactly the same, but you tend to fall into habit of remembering one over the other.
And I think I've just used the get world class so many times that this one is just become my default.
Inside of our time manager reference, we now have turned from the function call.
We want to set the timer that we are creating.
So this is basically telling the world at time a manager to create, a new timer to track, and we'll
be using our timer handle to bind and control this during gameplay.
So the set time a function has several ovulates.
The first is going to be our timer handle that.
We've created then a reference to our class.
It will then need to be assigned to the function to cool, which will be our pawn at Target.
And of course, it's going to be on the pawn target, the check fire condition.
Also note as well that when you're assigning a function to a timer, you do not include the brackets.
Then after this, we need to provide a flight value for the rate at which the timer should be called.
So if we head back over to our head afar, we can create this flight variable and we'll name this one
fire rate and our prefilled s with a value to begin of two.
So this means that if the player is in range, when we've gone through all of our checks, we would
expect our turrets to be firing every two seconds.
This is also going to be another variable which would be really useful to have as an exposed variable
in the editor, as we've seen in the previous lecture.
And this will allow us to really quickly change and iterate through different prototypes or enemy types.
So I will assign this a new property.
We'll make this edit anywhere.
Sign that the blueprint read write access.
Place it in a category.
Named Combat.
And provide the ally private access that matter, specify something to note as well.
Some of you may have noticed that we've been exposing a lot of the variables to blueprint rewrites as
this is really just kind of planning and future proofing for potential iterations of features that you
may want to test or project in blueprints.
In this project, we probably won't be doing that.
So if you did want to skip the blueprint specifiers on any of the variables that will save you from
requiring the private matter, specify to because that's really the reason we need to use that at the
moment is to make it visible and blueprints.
So you could safely nest this in a private section.
Don't make it blueprint accessible tool, and you wouldn't need the private matter specify in general.
I just like to include these as it saves me, adding them later, needing to recompile everything if
I do ever want to very quickly test or prototype something and blueprints.
For example, I've mentioned a few times that side task you might want to do when you've completed the
project would be to slow down certain tasks by reducing their fire rate within a certain range of a
power up or something.
And generally it's a lot easier to prototype some blueprints.
So having these exposed now, even if we don't use them immediately, means that you can very quickly
and easily drop in.
Try that change.
See if it works and then put it into C++ code.
So I just wanted to mention that very quickly.
We can now use our new variable in the set time, a function within going to set whether this timer
should loop as the next argument.
We can set this to true so that we can make sure that this updates every two seconds rather than just
firing once and then stopping the timer.
We also just noticed a small typo that this was meant to be fire rate, timer handle rather than just
fire rate timer.
So make sure to fix that if you followed along there.
And then this puts us in a nice position.
Just consider for the moment what the Czech fire condition should actually be doing when it's called
every X amount of seconds.
So we could have just created a function named Fire and had this update on the tick function.
And then when a certain condition is met, we can fire the projectile from the turret.
However, we already know that the tank class will also need a fire functionality.
So this is something that we can create in the base class and then reuse later.
So instead, I've opted to go for the Czech fire condition function here.
This will be responsible for checking that the desired conditions would be met to allow the firing functionality
to be called on the parent class.
This will also help avoid having our turret look like a really kind of dummy eye, which just fires
every Xman of seconds in a direction, regardless of whether the player is alive or in range, and it'll
just make it look that much more reactive.
So from that description alone, we know that for this function, we're gonna want to come back and
check first if the play is valid and whether it's still classed as being alive.
We haven't actually implemented that yet, but it makes sense to consider something like that as there's
nothing that looks more amateur than having your enemies kind of continue to wail on your dead player,
even in a small game jam injury.
No.
Going to add a range checking logic so that the player will have some chance to move around, get in
and out of the tart's range of fire and add that kind of small element of tactics for the player, as
well as just making it slightly more fair for the player as being bombarded from outside of the view
range can be somewhat annoying in in games like this.
So these comments are just going to remind us of what we're doing when we come back in the next lecture.
And we can see how we can split this logic out to maintain the readability of the class.
So for now, let's add just a standard unreal engine log inside of the check fire condition function
so that we can see our timer in action.
We'll make this a temporary log of time warning and we'll just make the text Scheidt Fire condition
checked.
So after reopening the editor, I'll just compile the project.
Wait for the compiler to successfully complete and then be sure to drag a tart class into the level.
Don't need to worry about the visuals or anything at the moment.
We just need the functional agencies to take on this.
And just a quick heads up here.
I am using the oat and P shortcut to enter play mode without pressing the button in the editor.
And then we can just quickly check the output logged on here.
And we can see that every two seconds our timer is being called and the check fire condition function
is creating our output log.